Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture where we implement a deck so we can implement our own debt
class and just like the other lectures.
Before we begin.
Let's go ahead and take a look at the methods and attributes that will be in our class.
First off we're going to have deck that creates a new deck that is empty.
It's not going to need any parameters and it's just going to return an empty deck.
Now we're going to have adding and removal methods.
So we'll have an ad front and an ad career.
They'll both add items and take items as parameters and then either put them to the front or the rear
depending on which method it's called.
And it will return nothing.
Then we're going to have remove front and remove rear.
These methods are going to remove items either from the front or the rear of the deck.
They won't need any parameters and they're going to return an item.
The deck will then be modified.
Then we have is empty to test to see whether the deck is empty or not it won't need any parameters or
will return a boolean value.
True or false depending if the deck is empty or not.
Then we have size which just returns a number of items in the deck.
It won't need any parameters and it's just going to return an integer.
So as always if you go to the Jupiter notebooks you'll have an implementation of deck notebook which
is what I'm looking at here as well is the code that we're going to explain and code out right now.
So let's go ahead and hop over to Jupiter notebook and code this out.
All right.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So you have a class deck.
I'll go ahead and passen objects is going to be an object and are just going to basically initiate this
class again just like we've been doing for stacks and Qs.
We're going to have the items be defined by a list then we'll create or is empty method that just takes
in self.
And that's going to return soft items is equal to an empty list.
So that's similar to the same method we used for stacks and Qs.
It's just checking if the items in list and if that's true will turn out true boolean otherwise or return
false.
Ok here's an X method at add front.
So we're going to take in an item as well as self and we're going to do is just a pen the item.
So remember a pen.
We have a list.
We'll put it at the very end.
In this case we'll call that the front of our deck
for the ADD rear method
but we want to do is again take an item say softer items and in this case we're going to inserts at
the zero index item.
So this will allow us to add that item at the rear.
Then let's go ahead and remove those items so I'll make two removal methods or remove front end or remove
rear.
Let's go ahead and zoom in on it just so we can really see it for move front.
We're going to take in self and we will return self items up pop
and then A-4 remove rear
but we're going to do is take taken cells and we will return self items.
But in this case we're going to pop at zero with index.
OK.
And then just for the last method which is size we are just going to return the length of the items
list which will these self items.
All right.
Let's go ahead and play around this and make sure it all makes sense.
So create a variable D and create an instance of our debt class.
So we just made we'll add to the front of it.
We'll say hello.
It's just a string hello.
And then we'll add the rear of it another string world or hello world strings.
Let's go ahead and check the science should be too.
All right.
That's looking good.
And now let's go ahead and make sure that the ordering makes sense to us or we're going to do is Prince
d remove France plus a space string and then we're going to say D remove rear and just a reminder of
just doing tab there to get that fill out or the autocomplete.
And if I run this I get.
Hello world.
So I removed both the front and the rear.
Let's go ahead and check the size now it's zero which means if I call is empty I should get a true boolean
.
All right.
That's it for the deck so you can kind of see how this was a mix between the stack and the queue classes
especially since the adding front and rear and the removal front and rear methods looked really similar
to almost like a combination of both stacks and Qs.
Again the main thing to be aware of is that you're gonna have to be careful as far as keeping these
in order if you decide to use your own deck creation especially in an interview setting where you may
be asked tricky questions on adding and removing items to really test your understanding of a deck.
OK.
That's it for the lectures.
Up next our the interview questions of the course so I'll see you at the next lecture.
And thank you everyone.